
<br/>
<div align="center">

<h3 align="center">Skeletonization Tool</h3>
<p align="center">


<br/>
<br/>
<a href="https://youtu.be/fFXoH72r6VE">View Demo .</a>  
<a href="mailto:amoseley018@gmail.com?subject=Skeletonization%20Tool%20Bug">Report Bug .</a>

</p>
</div>

## About The Project

This tool allows users to generate skeletons from grayscale images by defining their own parameters, steps, and metadata calculations. Please look at the demo video linked above to learn how to use and modify the tool for your own project.

The project was created with Python and PyQt.

This was created for Dr. Jordan Dowell's biology lab at LSU.
## Getting Started

If you are using Windows, or have [Wine](https://www.winehq.org/) installed on a Mac or Linux system, navigate to the "Releases" section of the repo on the right and download the most recent release. You can then open the executable to run the program. This is the easiest way to run HyPhy as it doesn't require you to download the code or manually install any packages. If you would still like to download the code or run HyPhy more manually, continue with the instructions below. Otherwise, you can skip them.
 
### Prerequisites

You must already have an environment set up to use this project. This is a requirement to install packages using pip. An easy way to set this up is through [Anaconda Navigator](https://www.anaconda.com/products/navigator).
### Installation

1. Clone the repo
   ```sh
   https://github.com/AaronMoseley/SkeletonizationTool.git
   ```
3. Install pip Packages (execute command inside Github repo directory)
   ```sh
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

### Running the Program

To use the program, make sure you have Python and all the program dependencies installed, then run the following command in your shell/command prompt while inside the HyPhy directory.

```sh
RunProgram.bat
```

Alternatively, if you need to debug the program, you can open this repo as a folder in VSCode and then run it using the "Main Application" configuration in the "Run and Debug" menu.

The images you use are assumed to be in the file format {sample name}_{timestep}.{png or tif}. If your images are not in that format, it will cause an error in the program. If your data does not involve time steps, use a 0 or any other number for the timestep value.
   
## Recent Updates

* You can now select lines and line clusters in the Skeleton Viewer and add comments about them on the right side of the screen. These comments are automatically saved in JSON files in the Calculations directory and can be viewed in future sessions.
* In addition to JSON files, CSV files are generated for each input image. A CSV file is generated for the entire image that contains information on the original image, the sample, timestamp, and file paths for the skeletons. CSVs are also generated for each skeleton type that provide the definition of points, line segments, clusters, and metadata. These CSV files are all placed in a directory specific to an individual input image.
* The metadata functions have been updated to take the image immediately prior to skeletonization as a parameter. This is useful for calculations where you need access to an image of the structure itself, like calculating line width. Because of this, skeletonization has been added to the end of every pipeline by default, so that step doesn't need to be added in SkeletonMap.json.
* A new window has been added that allows you to compare hand-drawn or externally generated skeletons to the ones generated by this tool. For any skeleton, click on the comparison button below its image to enter this mode and then upload a binary image of another skeleton. By default, it displays the maximum and average farthest distance to the nearest point for every point in the generated skeleton, but similarly to metadata functions, you can add your own in HelperFunctions.py. You can also overlay the skeletons together.

## License

Distributed under the MIT License. See [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) for more information.
## Contact

Aaron Moseley - amoseley018@gmail.com
